All right.
In the last section, we have installed Tailwind CSS.
In this section, we're going to work on the header section of the project.
So let me show you here by drawing.
So we have a header component at a top, which includes the menu.
Which we can show here.
Each menu has the menu has actually menu items.
So each of them is a separate component, actually.
And then we have two parts here, the logo and this.
A dark mode button.
So.
We are going to firstly create this menu and the logo and we're going to work on the dark menu in the
next section.
So let's go back.
As I mentioned earlier in the first section in the layout, the Gsx.
We're going to add the header and other parts, for example, the header, the now for the search box.
And this is going to be consistent in all websites.
For example, if you go to the page about we still see the header nav bar and the search box.
So we're going to add the header here.
So we.
First, let's clean this so inside the body section.
We want to add three things.
So we have the children at a bottom, and then we have at a top.
We have the header.
Then we have the.
Navarre.
And and then we have this search.
Search box.
So now we want to create the header component.
So inside the CRC folder, I'm going to create another folder called components.
And inside this folder I'm going to create.
A component called header.
Dot jz x.
And we can now use our C to create a React functional component, as I mentioned.
We can use an extension called s7a snippet to create this.
So when you write on ref C, it's going to create a React functional component.
If you click here, you can see we have a React functional component.
The other things we need to know is in next year 13.
All the components, all the pages are a server side by default.
If you want to have a client side component, you need to mention use client at the top.
So I'm going to show you later if we have a component that is client side, we're going to create and
add that tag at the top.
So now let's start the server and the first we import this header inside the layout section I'm going
to write down here Header.
And this is going to auto import header from components folder.
And this ADD sign is actually the alias that we have added when we were installing the next.
Yes.
The first time.
So they were asking us what alias do you want?
We have added this add sign.
So instead of just saying dot dot forward slash to come back to to the previous folder and go inside
this component folder we just write down add here.
So now we need to close this component and we start the server to see the changes inside our application.
So we use NPM run diff to start the server, and this is going to create a server in local host 3000.
So now if you refresh the page here inside local host 3000, we should see our website which has the
let me zoom this a little bit.
It has the home.
And also we have header at the top, which is coming from the Heather component, which is this Dave
with a heather in the middle.
So as I said, we need to have some sections inside the header, inside the final version we see.
We have a div.
The left side is the menu.
On the right side we have the logo.
So inside the head section we're going to have a div.
One, Dave is the for all of them.
One Dave we have for the.
Menu on the left side.
And we have one, Dave.
For the logo on the right side.
So we have one diff for the all the header, one there for the menu and one there for the logo on the
right side.
And let's create the menu first.
So for each menu item, we're going to create a component as well.
So we're going to create another component and we call it menu item that Gsx.
And now we're going to create a React functional component using React Ref..
See?
So now we have the menu item.
This menu item, JSX.
This is going to get a few things here.
So we're going to get the.
Title.
We are going to get the address of the link because this one is just a link.
When you click on this one, you go to the home page.
When you click on this, you go to forward slash about.
So we we have a title which can be home and about.
Then we have the address.
And let's let's bring this one back.
Address after the address.
And then we have the icon.
The icon is actually when you have a smaller screen like this instead of the text, we see an icon.
Like this.
So we're going to add icons as well.
So I'm going to have the option of getting the icon.
So this information is should come from the header that is X.
So we're going to import that menu item which is going to auto import.
And we are going to pass the data.
The data we want to pass is title.
The first title is home.
So we're going to write down the home.
Let me just make it a string here.
And for the title.
Is home and we just make it capitalize.
And for the address.
This is going to be.
Just a forward slash because we want to go to the home page.
Dan.
We have the icon.
So we're going to use a package called React Icons to get the icons we need.
So we go to Google and we search for React icons.
In the search result we see.
A GitHub repository page.
It's a it's a it's a link, but it's created by the GitHub blogging.
So it's the address is react, the icons, dot GitHub, dot IO, forward slash react icons.
If you click on this, the installation process is very simple.
You just need to have NPM install react icons, dash, dash, save.
So I'm going to copy this one.
I'm going to stop this server and paste this code.
This is going to install the package.
After that, we can just import the icon we need from the DAT link and also we just put that icon inside
wherever we want to use it.
Okay.
And you can search for the icons here.
The icons I want to use.
The first icon is just the you can search home.
I want to get this.
I feel home so you can just copy this one by clicking on it.
And you go back to Visual Studio Code, I'm going to import that font, so I'm just going to import.
That home I feel home from react icon for slash I.
So this is you see I got help from the get sorry the copilot extension.
So because this is from the I.
So we need to have a forward slash I at the end.
Now we can pass this one as an icon here.
So you just write down, I feel home here and pass it as an icon.
Now.
Inside the menu dot icon.
We get the item, we get the title, address and icon.
We can show it inside here.
So I'm going to.
Get these things and show it here.
So all the other things I want to do, we want to put them inside a link tag.
The link tag is coming from the next forward slash link.
This is going to go to that website, to that URL without refreshing the page.
So this is just the.
And then you can just close this one and this one gets some item here and you can put the text here
inside the middle.
So I'm going to have some paragraph here saying the title, which is home for the first one.
Okay.
And also, this one gets an H ref.
The H ref is just the address.
So the address is forward slash for the first one.
Then also we want to show the icon as well.
So we're going to add the icon here.
So we just say icon.
And close it.
Okay.
Let's see it inside the browser.
So I'm I'm going to bring this one to the left side and our website to the right side.
We are getting an error.
We said that icon unexpected.
Expression expected here.
So.
Okay.
Let me see.
Let's open this one and let's close the left side so we have a more space.
And also we just need to start the server.
So now, after the refreshing the page, maybe we don't get the error.
So I'm going to bring this one to the right side.
The speed of this depends on your computer CPU as well.
Because I'm recording at the same time I get a slower speed, but probably you get the faster refresh
and refreshment.
And also you can see the website faster here.
So let me bring this one a little bit higher.
Okay.
So let's see that we can get the results now.
It's refreshing.
Okay, Now we got the icon and also the home at the top.
If you can see here.
I'm going to zoom this one a little bit so you can see it better.
So we got the icon and this one.
Let's stall this one as well.
So for the styling now, in the next year 13, you can install the link directly here.
So you can just add a class name and add some tail and CSS classes here.
So.
I just want to bring these two to the next to each other.
So I'm going to use the flex.
First, I'm going to change the display to flex and.
And probably we don't need actually the flex because we're going to hide this icon when we are in the
bigger screen.
So I'm going to delete this flex, actually.
So the other things I want to do just want to.
Change the and we add some margin in the x axis of four.
So we have some space.
And between the things and also.
When we have a larger screen and above.
So intelligence says you just write down large the double clone.
So this is going to trigger only in the large size.
So in the large size and above, we want a margin X of six.
And when we hover over them.
I wanted to change the color of the text to be amber 600.
No.
If you hover over it, we see the amber color.
Now let's install the icon.
So for the icon, you're going to have a class name.
Which is we want to make the icon bigger.
So I'm just going to change the text to be two x large.
And if you want to see what it takes to to X large means you can use contour space.
And this is going to show you, for example, takes two x large means 24 pixels.
All right.
So for changing the size of the icons, react icons you can use text to x large and.
I want to make this one.
So let's see if they have this change.
So let's refresh the page.
You see, the icon is bigger now.
Now, if you want to I want to hide this icon when we have a bigger screen.
So I'm just say for sizes after the small size, which is the mobile size and above, I want to hide
this icon so we can just add hidden, which is display none.
So now if we increase the size, we don't see the icon.
So in the bigger screens, we don't see the icon until in the mobile size.
So we want to do the opposite for this menu at home.
So for the paragraph I'm going to add in class name.
So the four paragraphs we want to hit in that paragraph in the mobile size so we shouldn't see it now.
And for the size above the mobile size, I want to change the display to.
In line so we can see that.
So in the ink, the big size, we see the icon for the this text.
But in this small size we only see the icon.
Then I want to add some margin y axis of two and we want to make the text to be as small, which is
14 pixels.
So now we have completed the icon ending menu.
Let's add the.
Let's add the logo on the right side.
So inside the header is X.
So we have added one menu.
Actually, let's add another one.
So I'm going to copy this one using Contour Shift Arrow done simply using contour, Shift Arrow done.
And instead of just having home, I'm going to have another one for about the address would be forward
slash about.
And the icon I want to use is I just want to search for.
Info.
So let's search for info in the React icons.
And the icons I want to use is the.
This one.
Bees fill in for circle fill.
So let's copy this by clicking on ADD.
And we just paste it inside the icon.
So now inside our website, we should see different icons or we need to import this one as well.
So I'm going to import.
Bees fill in for Circle Field from reactor icons for bees.
As you can see, the GitHub copilot is kind of helpful sometimes suggests you some things.
As you can see now, the items actually are on top of each other.
We need to just change the display here.
So here I'm going to change the display to flex.
So we're going to bring them next to each other like this.
So let's see.
This isn't okay.
Let's remove this.
Uh.
Okay, so we need to add some space between them as well.
So let's see.
We can add some space.
Between the icons.
So let's.
Save this one.
We should have some space, but we cannot see.
We have this space here, the margin x box here.
But it didn't work for the icon.
Let's check inside the menu icon.
So for the link tag, I have added a margin X of four for the large margin X of six.
And.
It didn't work with the icon.
So let's add something for the icon.
So we add some margin X of four here.
Okay, so for the icon works as well.
So let's increase the size.
So it's working for the text to I didn't case.
Yeah.
This one?
Okay.
That was it for the left side.
Now, let's go to the right side here and add the.
Icon v the logo that we need.
So for the logo.
This is going to be a linked tag as well.
So because we want to have a link tag.
And if you want to redirect the person to the home page, so we just say h ref and this is going to
redirect the person to home page and we need to import the link as well.
So we use contour space to import it from next forward slash link.
And here inside the link, I'm going to add an H to tag.
Which is going to have to span.
So one is spam here and another one next to it.
So the first is spam is going to say I am D.
B.
And the second one, which is this one, it's just going to say clone.
The reason I separated them by using a spam because I want to have a different style for each of the
text.
So I'm going to zoom this a little bit so you can see it better.
For both of them.
I'm going to have some styling.
So I'm going to increase the size of the both of them to two x large.
So make them bigger for the IMDB alone.
I want to add some.
And I want to make it bold by changing the font boldness to bold.
And let's change the background color to be Amber 500, which is similar to the IMDB logo.
And let's change the y axis padding to one and x axis of two.
And let's make it rounded by just seeing rounded large, which is going to add a border radius of eight
pixels like this.
And for styling of the.
Clone.
I want to change the text instead of two weeks large to x large year and I want to make it hidden when
we have a mobile size, but instead add the size of the bigger than the mobile size.
I want to change the display to a slide to in line so we can see it in the bigger screen.
You can see clone, but in the small screen you don't see it.
And for adding a space between them.
There are plenty of ways to do it.
But the simplest way in the IMDB, you can just add them and margin in the right axis of one.
Marching on the right side.
So we have like this.
And as you can see, the menu and the logo on top of each other.
So we need to change the display here.
So we need to change the display at a top.
That is covering both of them.
We change the display here to flex, so bring them next to each other.
Like this.
Now let's decrease the size so you can see it better.
And then I want to add some space between them.
So I'm going to change the just to FY content to be a space between by just saying just the five between.
And we added a space in the x axis of two.
So.
We have some space between them and the wall.
And.
As you can see here.
But in the I want to limit the maximum width to be six Excel.
So they're going to come here.
You have some space, but they are not in the middle.
So we can just change the margin x after the small size and above to auto.
So they're going to come in the middle.
And in the mobile, a small size, we just see the logo.
They are not exactly on next to each other.
So we can just add the items center to bring them to the next to each other vertically.
So let's save this and see the change.
So let's now it's not item start, it's item center.
Okay.
Now they are just aligned with each other.
This is equal to a line items center in CSS.
All right, so now.
I think we have done with this part.
And let's see.
So as you can see in this big size, they are just connected to the wall.
We can add some space in the Y axis of six.
So we make them a little bit come down.
All right.
Like this.
K.
It looks okay.
So now we have created the menu.
So when we click on the about, it goes to the about page.
But we haven't created this page yet, so we get an error saying this page could not be fine.
So now.
We're going to create actually the about page in the following sections.
But in the next section we're going to create the this dark mode.
So if you just go to the home page or refresh the page here.
And we see that it's still in the dark mode.
When we click on this icon, we see it's a light mode.
So this is going to stay even.
You go to the different pages, for example, you go to trending.
So this is going to be always in the light mode so you can change it each time you go to different places.
So you can see now it's working now.
So now in the next section, we're going to work on the dark mode.
But let's just first we have complete this section.
Now, let's add this one to the GitHub.
So we're going to open to source control using Contour shift G, and I'm going to click here on this
plus icon to add everything to GitHub.
I'm going to add some message for the command, which is create.
The header
section, and I'm going to click here and click on the commit and push to push everything to GitHub.
Let's go to GitHub and we refresh the page to see the new commit.
And now we can review what we have done in the header section.
So let me zoom this a little bit.
In the package that JSON, you can see some packages added.
We have installed React icons.
So this with this package, we can get a different icon so we could get the home and the info icon.
In the layout.
G6 We have added the header, so we have just first divided our body to header that more and the search
box and we have added the header at a top and we have imported this component from the components folder.
And we have created a new component inside the components folder called Header that gsx.
Which is imported menu item, which is we are going to.
We have created in other components inside the components folder called menu item.
We have imported this one inside this component.
We have imported two icons from React Icons and also we have imported link from next link to add some
links for our menus and also the logo.
So we have divided this section by a div.
Inside the div we have another div for the menu and one day for the logo and a dark mode.
For the menu we have created and added the menu item component and we have passed the title address
and the icon.
And for the logo we have created to Spam to separate the IMDB and the clone.
And we have separately sell them using 12 and CSS.
And also we have added the extra forward slash.
When we click on this icon, we're going to be redirected to the home page.
We have created the menu item G6 files, which is going which is going to create the each menu item.
Each of them gets a title, address and icon, which we are passing from here.
As a props and we get this phone, these three here and we have created a link tag.
We pass the address.
We have passed the icon here and also we have passed the title here.
And they have hidden the icon in the larger screen.
And.
We just showed this icon in the mobile size and we did the opposite for the paragraph.
Okay.
That was it for the creating of the header section.
In the next section, we're going to work on the dark mode button.
So see you in the next section.